docs/source/generating_samples.rst, before:

.. _generating_samples:

******************
Generating Samples
******************

This tutorial explains how to use ``AirfoilCST`` module for generating samples.

Setting up options
------------------

First step involves creating options dictionary which is used for initializating the module. There are various 
options which can be set, please refer to :ref:`options<Options>` section for more details. Following snippet 
of the code shows an example::

    # Flow solver options
    solverOptions = {
        # Common Parameters
        "monitorvariables": ["cl", "cd", "cmz", "yplus"],
        "writeTecplotSurfaceSolution": True,
        "writeSurfaceSolution": False,
        "writeVolumeSolution": False,
        # Physics Parameters
        "equationType": "RANS",
        "smoother": "DADI",
        "MGCycle": "sg",
        "nsubiterturb": 10,
        "nCycles": 10000,
        # ANK Solver Parameters
        "useANKSolver": True,
        "ANKJacobianLag": 5,
        "ANKPhysicalLSTol": 0.25,
        "ANKOuterPreconIts": 2,
        "ANKInnerPreconIts": 2,
        "ANKASMOverlap": 2,
        "ANKSecondOrdSwitchTol": 1e-3,
        # NK Solver Parameters
        "useNKSolver": True,
        "NKSwitchTol": 1e-6,
        "NKSubspaceSize": 400,
        "NKASMOverlap": 3,
        "NKPCILUFill": 4,
        "NKJacobianLag": 5,
        "NKOuterPreconIts": 3,
        "NKInnerPreconIts": 3,
        # Termination Criteria
        "L2Convergence": 1e-14,
        "L2ConvergenceCoarse": 1e-4
    }

    # Volume meshing options
    meshingOptions = {
        # Input Parameters
        "unattachedEdgesAreSymmetry": False,
        "outerFaceBC": "farfield",
        "autoConnect": True,
        "BC": {1: {"jLow": "zSymm", "jHigh": "zSymm"}},
        "families": "wall",
        # Grid Parameters
        "N": 129,
        "s0": 1e-6,
        "marchDist": 100.0,
        # Pseudo Grid Parameters
        "ps0": -1.0,
        "pGridRatio": -1.0,
        "cMax": 3.0,
        # Smoothing parameters
        "epsE": 1.0,
        "epsI": 2.0,
        "theta": 3.0,
        "volCoef": 0.25,
        "volBlend": 0.0001,
        "volSmoothIter": 100,
    }

    # Creating aero problem
    ap = AeroProblem(
        name="ap", alpha=2.0, mach=0.734, reynolds=6.5e6, reynoldsLength=1.0, T=288.15, 
        areaRef=1.0, chordRef=1.0, evalFuncs=["cl", "cd", "cmz"], xRef = 0.25, yRef = 0.0, zRef = 0.0
    )

    # Options for blackbox
    options = {
        "solverOptions": solverOptions,
        "directory": "multi",
        "noOfProcessors": 8,
        "aeroProblem": ap,
        "airfoilFile": "rae2822.dat",
        "numCST": [6, 6],
        "meshingOptions": meshingOptions,
        "refine": 0
    }

Next step is to import the ``AirfoilCST`` module from Blackbox and initialize it using the options dictionary::

    from blackbox import AirfoilCST
    airfoil = AirfoilCST(options=options)

Adding design variables
-----------------------

The ``addDV`` method is used for adding design variables. This methods needs three arguments:

- ``name``: the design variable to add. The available design variables are: 

    - ``upper``: CST coefficients of upper surface. The number of variables will be equal to first entry 
      in ``numCST`` list in options dictionary.
    - ``lower``: CST coefficients of lower surface. The number of variables will be equal to second entry 
      in ``numCST`` list in options dictionary.
    - ``N1``: First class shape variable for both upper and lower surface. Adds only variable for both surfaces.
    - ``N2``: Second class shape variable for both upper and lower surface. Adds only variable for both surfaces.
    - ``alpha``: Angle of attack for the analysis.
    - ``mach``: Mach number for the analysis.
    - ``altitude``: Altitude for the analysis.

- ``lowerBound``: lower bound for the variable. 
- ``upperBound``: upper bound for the variable.

.. note::
    Only for ``upper`` and ``lower`` variable, the lower and upper bound represent fraction change. For example, 
    if the lower bound for ``lower`` variable is -0.3, then the actual lower bound will be lower surface CST 
    coefficients decreased by 30%. Similarly, if the upper bound for ``upper`` variable is 0.2, then the actual 
    upper bound will be upper surface CST increased by 20%.

In this tutorial, ``alpha``, ``upper`` and ``lower`` are added as the bounds::

    airfoil.addDV("alpha", 2.0, 3.0)
    airfoil.addDV("lower", -0.3, 0.3)
    airfoil.addDV("upper", -0.3, 0.3)

Here, the upper and lower bound for ``lower`` variable is +30% and -30% of the lower surface CST coefficients respectively.
You can also remove a design varialbe using ``removeDV`` method. It takes only one input which is the name of the variable.

Generating samples and accessing output
---------------------------------------

After adding design variables, generating samples is very easy. You just need to use ``generateSamples`` 
method from the initialized object ``airfoil``. This method takes only one integer input which is the number of samples 
to be generated. Following snippet of the code will generate 10 samples::

    airfoil.generateSamples(10)

You can see the following output upon successful completion of sample generation process:

- A folder with the name specificed in the ``directory`` option (or the default name - *output*) is created. This folder contains all the generated
  output.

- Within the main output folder, there will be subfolders equal to the number of samples you requested. Each of the folder corresponds to the specific
  analysis performed. It will contain log.txt which contains the output from mesh generation and solver. There will be other files depending on the 
  options provided to solver and blackbox.

- ``data.mat`` file which contains:

    - **Input variable**: a 2D numpy array ``x`` in which each row represents a specific sample based on which analysis is performed. The number
      of rows will be usually equal to the number of samples argument in the ``generateSamples`` method. But, many times few of the analysis
      fail. It depends a lot on the solver and meshing options, so set those options after some tuning.

      .. note::
          The order of values in each row is based on how you add design variables. In this tutorial, first ``alpha`` is added as
          design variable. Then, lower and upper surface CST coefficients are added. Thus, first value in each row will be alpha, next 6
          values will be upper surface CST coefficients and last 6 will be lower surface CST coefficients.

    - **Output variables**: There are two kinds of output variables - mandatory and user specificed. The ``evalFuncs`` argument in the aero problem
      decides the user desired variables. Along with these variables, `area` of the airfoil is the mandatory objective.


  Following snippet shows how to access the data.mat file. In this tutorial, ``evalFuncs`` argument contains 
  ``cl``, ``cd``, ``cmz``. So, data.mat will contain these variables, along with ``area``::

    from scipy.io import loadmat
    data = loadmat("data.mat") # mention the location of mat file

    x = data["x"]
    cl = data["cl"]
    cd = data["cd"]
    cmz = data["cmz"]
    area = data["area"]

- ``description.txt``: contains various informations about the sample generation such as design variables, bounds, number of failed analysis, etc.

Commit message:

changed the way design variable is added for upper and lower surface

docs/source/generating_samples.rst, after:

.. _generating_samples:

******************
Generating Samples
******************

This tutorial explains how to use ``AirfoilCST`` module for generating samples.

Setting up options
------------------

First step involves creating options dictionary which is used for initializating the module. There are various 
options which can be set, please refer to :ref:`options<Options>` section for more details. Following snippet 
of the code shows an example::

    # Flow solver options
    solverOptions = {
        # Common Parameters
        "monitorvariables": ["cl", "cd", "cmz", "yplus"],
        "writeTecplotSurfaceSolution": True,
        "writeSurfaceSolution": False,
        "writeVolumeSolution": False,
        # Physics Parameters
        "equationType": "RANS",
        "smoother": "DADI",
        "MGCycle": "sg",
        "nsubiterturb": 10,
        "nCycles": 10000,
        # ANK Solver Parameters
        "useANKSolver": True,
        "ANKJacobianLag": 5,
        "ANKPhysicalLSTol": 0.25,
        "ANKOuterPreconIts": 2,
        "ANKInnerPreconIts": 2,
        "ANKASMOverlap": 2,
        "ANKSecondOrdSwitchTol": 1e-3,
        # NK Solver Parameters
        "useNKSolver": True,
        "NKSwitchTol": 1e-6,
        "NKSubspaceSize": 400,
        "NKASMOverlap": 3,
        "NKPCILUFill": 4,
        "NKJacobianLag": 5,
        "NKOuterPreconIts": 3,
        "NKInnerPreconIts": 3,
        # Termination Criteria
        "L2Convergence": 1e-14,
        "L2ConvergenceCoarse": 1e-4
    }

    # Volume meshing options
    meshingOptions = {
        # Input Parameters
        "unattachedEdgesAreSymmetry": False,
        "outerFaceBC": "farfield",
        "autoConnect": True,
        "BC": {1: {"jLow": "zSymm", "jHigh": "zSymm"}},
        "families": "wall",
        # Grid Parameters
        "N": 129,
        "s0": 1e-6,
        "marchDist": 100.0,
        # Pseudo Grid Parameters
        "ps0": -1.0,
        "pGridRatio": -1.0,
        "cMax": 3.0,
        # Smoothing parameters
        "epsE": 1.0,
        "epsI": 2.0,
        "theta": 3.0,
        "volCoef": 0.25,
        "volBlend": 0.0001,
        "volSmoothIter": 100,
    }

    # Creating aero problem
    ap = AeroProblem(
        name="ap", alpha=2.0, mach=0.734, reynolds=6.5e6, reynoldsLength=1.0, T=288.15, 
        areaRef=1.0, chordRef=1.0, evalFuncs=["cl", "cd", "cmz"], xRef = 0.25, yRef = 0.0, zRef = 0.0
    )

    # Options for blackbox
    options = {
        "solverOptions": solverOptions,
        "directory": "multi",
        "noOfProcessors": 8,
        "aeroProblem": ap,
        "airfoilFile": "rae2822.dat",
        "numCST": [6, 6],
        "meshingOptions": meshingOptions,
    }

Next step is to import the ``AirfoilCST`` module from Blackbox and initialize it using the options dictionary::

    from blackbox import AirfoilCST
    airfoil = AirfoilCST(options=options)

Adding design variables
-----------------------

The ``addDV`` method is used for adding design variables. This methods needs three arguments:

- ``name (str)``: the design variable to add. The available design variables are: 

    - ``upper``: CST coefficients of upper surface. The number of variables will be equal to first entry 
      in ``numCST`` list in options dictionary.
    - ``lower``: CST coefficients of lower surface. The number of variables will be equal to second entry 
      in ``numCST`` list in options dictionary.
    - ``N1``: First class shape variable for both upper and lower surface. Adds only variable for both surfaces.
    - ``N2``: Second class shape variable for both upper and lower surface. Adds only variable for both surfaces.
    - ``alpha``: Angle of attack for the analysis.
    - ``mach``: Mach number for the analysis.
    - ``altitude``: Altitude for the analysis.

- ``lowerBound (numpy array or float)``: lower bound for the variable.
- ``upperBound (numpy array or float)``: upper bound for the variable.

    .. note::
        When ``upper`` or ``lower`` variable are to be added, the lower and upper bound should be a 1D numpy array of the same size 
        as the number of CST coefficients for that particular surface mentioned in the ``options`` dictionary. For other cases, lower
        and upper bound should be float.

In this tutorial, ``alpha``, ``upper`` and ``lower`` are added as the bounds::

    airfoil.addDV("alpha", 2.0, 3.0)

    # Adding upper surface CST coeffs as DV
    coeff = airfoil.DVGeo.defaultDV["upper"] # get the fitted CST coeff
    lb = coeff - 0.3*coeff
    ub = coeff + 0.3*coeff

    airfoil.addDV("upper", lowerBound=lb, upperBound=ub)

    # Adding lower surface CST coeffs as DV
    coeff = airfoil.DVGeo.defaultDV["lower"] # get the fitted CST coeff
    lb = coeff - 0.3*coeff
    ub = coeff + 0.3*coeff

    airfoil.addDV("lower", lowerBound=lb, upperBound=ub)

Here, the upper and lower bound for ``lower`` and ``upper`` variable are +30% and -30% of the fitted CST coefficients.
You can also remove a design varialbe using ``removeDV`` method. It takes only one input which is the name of the variable.

Generating samples and accessing output
---------------------------------------

After adding design variables, generating samples is very easy. You just need to use ``generateSamples`` 
method from the initialized object ``airfoil``. This method takes only one integer input which is the number of samples 
to be generated. Following snippet of the code will generate 10 samples::

    airfoil.generateSamples(10)

You can see the following output upon successful completion of sample generation process:

- A folder with the name specificed in the ``directory`` option (or the default name - *output*) is created. This folder contains all the generated
  output.

- Within the main output folder, there will be subfolders equal to the number of samples you requested. Each of the folder corresponds to the specific
  analysis performed. It will contain log.txt which contains the output from mesh generation and solver. There will be other files depending on the 
  options provided to solver and blackbox.

- ``data.mat`` file which contains:

    - **Input variable**: a 2D numpy array ``x`` in which each row represents a specific sample based on which analysis is performed. The number
      of rows will be usually equal to the number of samples argument in the ``generateSamples`` method. But, many times few of the analysis
      fail. It depends a lot on the solver and meshing options, so set those options after some tuning.

      .. note::
          The order of values in each row is based on how you add design variables. In this tutorial, first ``alpha`` is added as
          design variable. Then, lower and upper surface CST coefficients are added. Thus, first value in each row will be alpha, next 6
          values will be upper surface CST coefficients and last 6 will be lower surface CST coefficients.

    - **Output variables**: There are two kinds of output variables - mandatory and user specificed. The ``evalFuncs`` argument in the aero problem
      decides the user desired variables. Along with these variables, `area` of the airfoil is the mandatory objective.


  Following snippet shows how to access the data.mat file. In this tutorial, ``evalFuncs`` argument contains 
  ``cl``, ``cd``, ``cmz``. So, data.mat will contain these variables, along with ``area``::

    from scipy.io import loadmat
    data = loadmat("data.mat") # mention the location of mat file

    x = data["x"]
    cl = data["cl"]
    cd = data["cd"]
    cmz = data["cmz"]
    area = data["area"]

- ``description.txt``: contains various informations about the sample generation such as design variables, bounds, number of failed analysis, etc.
